[Music]
oh alhamdulillah
following from the talk by Bakr will
take off from the verse which he recited
since the theme is about Quran we have
to attach ourselves to the Quran our
life
support in the Allah subhah waala says
to tell us to
say our Lord guide us to the straight
path
my brothers and sisters to be guided to
the straight path means away from all
the problems of the world everything
that affects our heart everything that
affects our mind all the stresses and
the problems that we go through family
problems work problems financial
problems mental problems all sorts of
problems come our way and my brothers
and sisters when Allah says to us guide
us to the straight path it means we want
an escape from everything that Del udes
us and takes us away from the
path the problem however is that the
majority of people can easily be led
astray by the following ways Allah
[Music]
says
for
[Music]
Allah says
in the time of people's Reckoning the
day of judgment has drawn very
near and yet they turn aside in
heedlessness they are
unaware whenever any fresh verse of the
Quran admonition or reminder comes to
them from their lord they barely heed it
they barely think about it and remain
immersed in Play and
games their hearts being set on other
concerns their hearts being set on other
concerns the wrongdoers whisper to one
another this person is no more than a
mortal like
yourselves will you then be Enchanted by
sorcery while you can
see this verse in is very deep it's
talking to every person not only at the
time of the Prophet sallallahu alaih
wasallam but TOS of all of us till the
end of time there is so much distraction
in this
world when one of us goes into problems
for
example a lot of us resort to more
distractions in fact some of us they
resort to sinful behavior in the name of
distracting our minds
so that we can forget and so we go into
more and more problems and more distress
and more mental
issues and on top of that on top of that
those who want to lead us astray and
Lead You astray they whisper among each
other why would you listen to these
people or they will whisper to you they
go on the internet they see your social
media they give you a little message
they DM you or somebody makes a stupid
comment look at these people this Quran
in other words this is all fairy tales
they say it's the same word they used to
say to each other in those
days what you follow fairy tales and
magic and sorcery while you can see are
you are you silly open your eyes and
these same statements happen today do
not be fooled brothers and sisters these
people will continue to bombard you and
tell you this is all fairy tales the
Quran is fairy tales your religion is
Fairy Tales look at you talking about
angels and the day of judgment and this
hour that's coming which your lord is
telling you Allah says yes yes all you
have to do is read and read the Quran
without any preconceived notion and let
it talk to you when you recite the Quran
with an open heart and empty your mind
and heart you will find that the Quran
is reading you and when you find the
Quran reading you brother and sister
that's when you will see that true Allah
is guiding you the Quran has to read you
if you don't feel it you're not really
with it and when the Quran reads you you
start to see with real eyes Allah for
example says if you doubt that the day
of judgment is going to come if you
doubt that a Lord exists who is Allah
who created this universe if you doubt
that the one who is telling you I will
raise you back to life after death if
you doubt that if the shatan plays with
your mind if people play with your mind
by calling it fairy tales then remember
this remember this Allah replies when
you look at the Quran Allah says for
example
say go backwards if you want to know the
truth go
backwards what is backwards remember the
time that you were
born can you see people being born all
the time yes because people they say how
can I see the Hereafter how can you tell
me to exist I don't see it so you go
backwards can you see that you were born
the answer is yes okay now ask yourself
the question Allah says I gave you an
intellect were you
nothing before you were born the answer
is yes they don't ever get
scientifically you know
technical I know that in science they'll
say no you were technically an Adam and
technically you were some other material
no no no what Allah is telling you is
were you a human being were you what you
are right now because when you die you
turn back into material anyway but what
were you before you were
born Allah says you were nothing nothing
to be mentioned you were not
you how did you become you then Allah
says for example in the
Quran
[Music]
has there not come a time on human
beings at one time when there were
nothing even to be mentioned meaning
before you were born then Allah
says in another
Aah Just as we started you in the
beginning just as we started you in the
beginning in another verse Allah
says just like that we repeat the
process tell me brothers and sisters for
those who have doubt in the
Quran if you think about it what's more
difficult for somebody to initiate
something originally out of nothing or
for somebody to just copy and repeat
rinse and repeat which one's harder to
start something from nothing or to
repeat
something start something from nothing
is harder so when you think about
yourself you were nothing Allah
originated you and started
you repeating it is very
[Music]
easy
in or like the story of that man when he
passed by a deserted uh Village and
everybody had died and the buildings
were ruined
he later on asked the question who is
how how can God bring back life from
bones while it was already in Ruins and
then Allah
says say the one who created it in the
beginning and means he started it he
originated it he initiated it he can
repeat the process again in another
verse Allah says Allah made him die for
a 100 years and he woke up he said how
long were you uh dead for he said to the
angel a day or part of a day he says you
were dead for 100 years look at your
donkey look at your food look at
yourself why am I saying this brothers
and sisters we need to attach ourselves
to the Quran because the Quran is not
just fairy tales it literally talk to
you with
reasoning it talks to your
reason you know the Quran says to reason
more more than 36 times to think and
Ponder more than 40 times all
collectively more than 100 times it says
think Ponder reason reflect
ask the Quran is the best Hadith it is
the best
conversation when you detach yourself
from the Quran then you're going to read
other people's comments they're the
things that are going to affect you you
go on social media and I've seen a lot
of my young brothers and sisters this is
what this is what hurts me
we try to call them back to reciting the
Quran trying to understand it trying to
read different translations of the Quran
trying to ask questions about the Quran
just ask a few questions about some of
the verses you're reading like what Abu
Bakr was explaining
about but unfortunately we get
distracted and then they get affected by
little comments that people put on
social media they say yeah I'm having
doubt read the Quran go back and ask the
Quran will wake you up I used to go go
through it myself you know brothers and
sisters Allah subhanahu wa taala
continues to guide you whether you like
it or not and the only one who wants to
guide you is somebody who cares about
you and when I say may Allah guide you
it means I care about you and you say
may Allah guide you it means you care
about me guidance is the best gift that
anyone can be given and I want to tell
you about this Lord who told us in the
Quran who guides us Allah says an
introductory advice
he
[Music]
says flee run away turn away and run
away very
fast to Allah surely I am a clear Warner
to you from him this is a prophet who
said this to to his people he said run
away to Allah I am a Warner from him if
you analyze this verse it's kind of like
an
oxymoron you know the word oxymoron it's
another word for
contradiction he's saying to you run
away okay what do you run away
from we run away from things that that
make us afraid things that we fear we
run away from all the problems and then
he tells
run to Allah okay and then he says to
them I am a Warner from him and when you
warn someone about something or from
someone again it's
negative to warn someone from something
meaning you fear that something yet he
is telling you run away from what you
fear to the one that you also fear who
is Allah it kind of doesn't make sense
for the person who takes it on surface
level you know when someone says to you
fear Allah some people they get upset
with that word fear Allah brother don't
tell me to fear Allah you fear Allah you
beep and some people say fear Allah
because they think they're better than
you so you got two problems the people
who say fear Allah they're saying out of
arrogance and the people who get the
word fear Allah they also can't accepted
out of
arrogance brother and sister doesn't
matter what they mean you take that word
and focus on what Allah has told you
fear Allah allahar what a beautiful
reminder used to
say may Allah have mercy on a person who
gifts me my
mistakes he works through the sarcasm
and the criticism and takes the benefit
that's a strong person that's a high
value person it's a powerful
person anyway fearing Allah does not
mean
something negative it's the most
beautiful thing I don't know if you've
heard this story from me before but I
remember when I when my little daughter
was about 2 years old you can also
relate to this with your little
children with parents cuz sometimes we
got to frown at our children if they do
the wrong thing I remember my little
daughter was trying to touch the
barbecue she was going to hurt herself
and obviously I feared for that so I
raised my voice
don't so she got
scared so she ran to
me do you have that when your little
daughter or son you say don't and then
they hug they they hold on to you
they're scared of you but they hold on
to you has anyone witnessed that before
don't and they hold on to you am I right
or wrong hands up if you've witnessed
that if you've experienced that there
you go all the parents may Allah bless
you and your
children they hold on to you but they're
scared of you they holding holding on to
you for security but they're scared of
you because you shouted at them so my
daughter did the same thing and I said
I'm not happy you you're going to hurt
yourself so she felt that I didn't want
her so she cried ah she's not crying
about the fire anymore she's crying
because I couldn't understand so I'm
looking like this and I held her and put
her in my lap and I said I'm just scared
for you
Bubba and then she
slipped
she found her
Comfort
why she ran I'm the one who made her
afraid but she ran from the real fear
which will harm her and that's the fire
the fire has no mercy she ran to the one
who she has experienced mercy and fear
from at the same
time the only way this verse will work
is that if you know who Allah is he is
the one that you love and have the most
hope in at the same time you fear the
fear is out of respect and he truly has
the right to be feared feared means that
I am afraid to lose the mercy and the
compassion and the love and the
connection with my Creator Allah because
if I lose my connection with my beloved
Allah everything else is
evil I'm going to go downhill I'm going
to the fire so my fear of Allah is to
fear not only his punishment but fearing
losing his love because it's very hard
to lose Allah subhana wa tala's love and
that is why Allah says so run away from
the real evil and go to the one whom you
fear out of love my daughter was afraid
of losing the love and the feeling that
she once experienced from her father she
didn't want to lose that so she held on
and when she found that love back she
slipped
meant as the uh in the time of because
he was so just and compassionate to the
people the Emperor or the commander from
Rome came looking for the Khalifa he
said where is your Amir where is your
leader they said there he is actually
they said we don't know exactly where he
is so he went around and found him sleep
sleeping under a tree in simple clothes
by himself no Gods he
said you were just
so you found security and so you slept
and with Allah subhah wa ta'ala is the
same through fear of Allah you find his
Justice you find your security and you
find your comfort with him subhanahu wa
taala because Allah is the just and most
merciful so run away to Allah brothers
and sisters if you don't run run away to
Allah subhah wa ta'ala then Allah will
come into the picture and he will give
you four stages of
reminders so I'm going to conclude now
with how Allah subhah wa
taala comes into your life and gives you
four stages of waking you up he won't
let you go astray because every Salat
you were reciting what were you
reciting what did we start
with what we
anyone what is
it
don't you ask Allah this every Salah oh
Allah guide us to the right path since
you asked Allah to guide you in the
right path every single Salah Allah will
not let you go astray but he'll go
through four
stages when a person begins to drift
away from Allah or not even
that sorry when a person drifts away
from Allah and sometimes doesn't even
drift away but Allah wants to make even
better he calls you through four
stages in other words Allah gives you da
through four stages dawa means an invite
Allah invites you back through four
ways the first way is the easiest way
that is for everybody every single one
of us in this room and around the world
get this first stage for free the first
stage that Allah goes through is he
shows you and clarifies to you the
guidance by exposing you to
opportunities to listen or to read or
send someone to you to remind you such
as the on a Friday everyone can sit down
and listen to the that's why we must not
talk or engage with anybody during the
on Allah is guiding you just listen
everybody can do that you go on YouTube
and you listen to a topic of your choice
about Islam or de or fear of Allah
everybody can do that who is the one
that facilitated this for you humans
invented it but who is the one that gave
them the intellect them for you the ears
to listen Allah so Allah brings to you
something like that I've heard young
people tell me you know what Subhan
Allah today I was thinking about this I
opened up my phone and on YouTube what's
the first thing that came up this Subhan
this is a sign yes it is a sign it is a
sign sometimes all week you'll be
talking with your friends about
something or thinking about something
and the comes the you sit down you go oh
my Allah this IM is speaking about the
same thing I was thinking about all week
it's a
sign sometimes You' be going and you see
this religious sister or brother coming
your way you want to run away because
then you're going to think it's the
Haram police or something like that the
Shan starts telling you all this stuff
right but then they follow you even if
you don't like it and you try to be
respectful and they remind you about
something and they go
away Allah has sent you a messenger
don't worry about their whether they
were nice or not nice a strong person is
able able to sift through that we cop it
all the
time you know what cop means it's a it's
an Aussie slang we cop it means we we
suffer all the time when we're on social
media lots of people say terrible
terrible terrible comments to us all the
shaks all the people on on on social we
cop all the time but you have to be able
to sift through that ugly comment and
remember that you are pleasing who you
are pleasing Allah subhana wa tala if I
know that I'm doing the right thing and
Allah is pleased with me I will take
some of the criticism that guides me and
I'll throw out the attitude of the
people because I don't want to be like
them may God help them I'll make Dua for
them say Allah may Allah forgive you so
Allah sends you free
guidance now if that doesn't work for
you and you continue to go astray Allah
then goes a little he he guides you
through a little bit of a tougher
approach the second stage he will
nurture you through disciplining you
so first you didn't take the
reminder when you were comfortable so
then Allah nurtures You by disciplining
you now I want you to think about
discipline in relation to parents
someone who cares about you if your
mother or father discipline you or you
discipline your children it is a is it a
good thing or a bad thing of course with
the correct way of disciplining with
care and
compassion you will appreciate that your
parents disciplined you in order for you
to be principled through care and love
even sometimes it may be harsh for you
such as confiscating your phone or
confiscating your whatever is
distracting
you so Allah nurtures you through
discipline how he will bring a problem
into your
life he will bring what a problem a
challenge into your life and we all know
that humans learn best through what
through
problems when you learn math who who
Who's a mathematician here who learns
maths everybody learns maths who likes
maths I hate maths but if you love maths
masallah you're a brain how do you
become a good ma mathematician isn't it
through
problems that's what we call them call
them problems call them problems because
once you get through that problem you're
going to feel amazing you conquered that
problem so Allah gives you a
problem and that's how Allah dealt with
all the prophets and Messengers and the
companion so if you have a problem know
that Allah is guiding you take it in a
good way now that problem is going to be
your medicine and once you overcome it
insh Allah you're going to be much
stronger and better so Allah gives you a
problem a learning curve a wakeup call
somebody might get sick in your family a
death may happen and you attend a
funeral you may see somebody get run
over you may have an accident God forbid
you may lose something you may be tested
a lot or a little bit depending on how
severe you need that
guidance then if that doesn't work Allah
will intensify a little bit more to the
third stage the third stage is he will
bring you something
compelling the problem is up to you how
you want to face
it but when he brings you something
compelling it means it's something that
you must face you have no way to avoid
it you have to face it it could be a
court order
it could be a
fine it could be someone that's facing
you and you have to deal with that you
can't run away from it it could be
anything like that could be a sickness
God forbid anything like that it's
compelling a suffering and a minor
punishment Allah
[Music]
says Allah says and we shall surely let
them taste a little bit of punishment or
a little bit of
hardships in this world and Allah calls
a adna which means the lower test before
the bigger test the bigger punishment
comes why Allah
says in the hope that they will return
so why are little punishments happening
to you in this world in the hope that
you may
what return so you can stand up again
again if that doesn't work not no
reminders no problems no compelling
situations over and over and over and
they accumulate and we decide to run
away from Allah to everything else to
numb our desires and our fears drugs
alcohol crime uh God forbid Haram images
uh Haram relationships I hear of some
youngsters they run away from their
parents because into a relationship this
is toxic uh the first guy that talks to
her she says I can't wait to get out of
this toxic
family I hate my dad I hate my mom and
then she runs off with the first guy who
Tak I want to run away take me away
thinking his his her Jenna he ain't your
Jenna
darling and then she has toxic
relationship then no no no run to Allah
first so Allah can help you if all and I
know I just picked on our sisters I'll
pick on the brothers as well a brother
goes through problems and then he wants
someone to Mummy him he's got problems
with his mom so he goes on the internet
tries to shop around for the easiest
Target how old are
you oh are you 17 sweet
sweet because 17 is like good that's
that's that's good
enough you see a 14-year-old how old are
you I'm 14 oh sweet sweet what are they
after they go to their mates and they
say look look I picked her up oh man bro
you're you're you're a champion show us
how to do it these people have got
problems and we need to nurture them we
need to nurture them no brother and
sister don't go after that in order for
you to try and fulfill that little Gap
that you might have no that's going to
lead you astray but anyway after all
these three stages if nothing works and
reminders come again and again then the
cat the catastrophe happens and I'm
going to finish it with this do you know
what the catastrophe is what do you
think it is
huh what do you think the catastrophe is
if all the reminders come to the person
and the person does not wake up and
return what is the catastrophe that
Allah brings
you you might think death sickness
Allah's going to send a lightning bulb a
lightning uh on you someone's going to
murder you someone's going to go from
your family something terrible is going
to happen you're going to lose your
business no no no no no none of that is
going to be the catastrophe you'll be
surprised to know that the final
catastrophe will be Allah just lets you
go he just lets you go do whatever you
want make as much money as you want
fulfill your every piece of Desire that
you ever wanted so Allah lets you go to
the dun to your desires to everything we
do not want to reach that stage because
that means that Allah is no longer with
us he has abandoned us because we
abandoned him and the only thing we will
receive is a temporary ugly world and
even the world will turn against you as
for the Hereafter there will be nothing
left and that's why Allah
[Music]
says and do not be like those who forgot
Allah so Allah made them forget who they
are these are truly the ones who are
corrupt but rather we want to be among
those whom Allah loves and we love him
and inshallah we get the best of both
worlds here and in the Hereafter
inshallah say
[Music]
a
oh